Aug 16 '21
date
/static/logo_white.png
thumbnail
# Zero to One - Enterprise AI
h2
## How big is the gap between Data Science and Enterprise AI? Astronomical.
h3
Enterprise AI is like the power supply - it is essential. Compact AI™ helps you
establish Enterprise AI in your organization.
brief
<br/><br/>

<br/><br/>
fig
nasa_electricity.jpg
fig
<br/><br/>

<br/><br/>

Back in ’10, Data Science seemed to be the panacea for all my problems. I was naive. Soon I would realize while watching the nth sci-fi movie that there is a massive gap between what the computer textbooks claim and what we observe in reality.  The machine cannot get me gum from the neighborhood deli even with access to all the data in the world. The program we wrote in school to find the shortest path between 2 points in a matrix cannot do so in the real world. Enter Enterprise AI. Enterprise AI allows today’s organizations to wield the power of Data Science in the real world.


There’s a widely known stat in corporate presentations, 52% of the Fortune 500 companies in 2000 no longer exist. Further research shows that companies listed between 2000 to 2009 have only a 63% chance of surviving in the current hyper-digital age.  How can today’s organizations insure themselves against the newer competition? Organizations require an intelligent system that delivers their products and services faster and cheaper without compromising on quality. Enterprise AI is the key to unlocking such an intelligent system within the organization.

In the past, I have had the pleasure of working with CEOs, business leaders, and HR executives of great companies like Accenture, Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, PeakMetrics etc. In this article, I will provide a brief look into how these companies and leaders have been able to quickly upgrade their organization’s leadership capabilities to incorporate Enterprise AI and in the process solve their toughest business challenges.

I am going to show you how your organization can get ROI from its Enterprise AI capabilities in as little as 90 days using my Compact AI™ process. The reason we are able to provide such a quick turnaround time on such a crucial process as Enterprise AI is by valuing your time :

* Skip Long-drawn Lectures that do not have a tangible benefit to the business

* Eliminate Dysfunctional Dependency on technical resources outside the organization

According to Gartner, most organizations will attempt Enterprise AI programs, but only 15% will succeed and outperform their peers on most business metrics by 2024. Only 1 out of every 10 data science projects make it into production. Almost always, leaders forget how crucial Enterprise AI is for the long-term sustenance of their organizations. Unless leaders consistently focus on prioritizing data and analytics governance platforms, Enterprise AI hardly shows business impact. Furthermore, the lack of a system to solve problems in a data-driven manner without Enterprise AI consultants creates a bottleneck for the company to expand its Enterprise AI capabilities.
The Compact AI™ process that I am sharing here is the exact same process that my clients have used time and time again to quickly develop their top teams and leaders and make massive progress on their toughest business challenges often as little as 90 days. In a nutshell, the Compact AI™ process enables leaders to become Enterprise AI evangelists within their organization by doing the following:

* Solve real-world business problems side-by-side with us that are impossible or very tough to solve otherwise

* Learn how to lead differently to build an Enterprise AI-first organization

* Apply Enterprise AI lessons with our guidance to solve new problems without the need for additional resources


Most business leaders today are struggling with 1 of 2 things - either they fail to consistently solve problems by applying their organization’s AI capabilities or develop and raise the performance of the organization’s AI capabilities. If this sounds all too familiar, rest assured that you are in the right place and you are not alone. Contact us to know more about how you can create $1.5B in annualized value for your organization.
