Aug 18 '21
date
/static/b_4.png
thumbnail
# Compact AI™ : First, Choose the Right Problem (Part 2)
h2
## Part of Solving the Enterprise AI puzzle is to See the Problem
h3
AI has been shown to inform business decisions to create $1.5B in value on average. Compact AI™
walks you through the process of replicating the success of AI-first companies like
Google, Microsoft etc.
brief
<br/><br/>

<br/><br/>
fig
maze.jpg
fig
<br/><br/>
A leading financial services company wants to use the Compact AI™ process to improve customer retention. 

<br/>
Customer retention is a core business problem because it directly impacts the key business metrics eg. profitability, brand value and sustainability. 

<br/>
According to a Bain & Company study,  5% increase in customer retention yields more than 25% increase in profits. 

<br/>
Customer retention is also a top priority because according to Harvard Business Review, it costs 5 to 25% more to acquire new customers than to retain existing customers. 

<br/>
The bank’s corporate account managers spend a lot of time manually tracking the key revenue drivers eg. customers’ transaction activity and cash balances. 

<br/>
But there is a lot of noise in the key customer retention indicators because of the presence of many unaccounted internal and external factors eg. investment activity, mergers and divestitures, competitive landscape etc. 

<br/>
The traditional IT systems eg. spreadsheets, CRM etc. are not equipped to record the effects of all the key factors on customer retention. 

<br/>
This is the kind of problem the Compact AI™ system is designed to solve. 

<br/>
Account managers can identify and proactively engage with potential at-risk customers early on by using a system that processes and infers from various internal and external data sources in real time eg. customer balances, transaction history, interest rates on cash balances, short-term interest rates, credit history, GDP, money supply, account-specific corporate actions from SEC files etc. 

<br/>
For example, the Enterprise AI system produced by using Compact AI™ methodology can process millions of data points in real time to identify at-risk customer profiles early, predict those who are likely to reduce their balances for preventable reasons and send prioritized alerts and recommendations to account managers in a timely fashion so that they can take pre-emptive action. But the contribution of Compact AI™ does not end there. 

<br/>
Even though the division head (let’s call her Maria) devised an effective data-driven approach using Compact AI™, a key piece to the puzzle is still missing. The majority of her management and salesforce is against implementing the new AI strategy, fearing the initial groundwork is not worth the potential ROI. 

<br/>
Maria and her team are understandably disappointed. Without other alternatives, Maria and her team starts pressurizing the organization without paying heed to people’s opinion. 

<br/>
Within months, the verdict of the new data-driven policies is in. Maria is elated to see that customer experience improved by 4% with the new Compact AI™ process in place. 

<br/>
But there is a catch. Employee experience in her department went down by 40% compared to corporate banking divisions of the bank in other locations. 

<br/>
Since Maria is heading a customer facing department, employee experience directly impacts customer experience. 

<br/>
As part of the initial step of the Compact AI™ process, we carefully documented how Maria and her team attempts to bring her division on board with the Enterprise AI approach. 

<br/>
After analyzing the individual use cases of Maria and the rest of her AI team, we came to the conclusion that the way in which they were collectively leading the digital transformation was the root cause of the failure of their Enterprise AI efforts. 

<br/>
Within 3 days, the Compact AI™ process informed Maria and her team the fundamental changes required in their leadership role. 

<br/>
Within 1 month, they were able to convince the resistant managers to buy into the Compact AI™ strategy to implement a bellwether Enterprise AI program and hold their teams accountable to the new data-driven customer retention strategy.  

<br/>
Within 2 years, the financial services company went from #4 to #1 worldwide in customer satisfaction.
