# How I Taught Myself Basketball Using Data Science

## Who will win? The Lakers or the Dubs? The last game says it all
<br/><br/>
The NBA playoffs are in full swing. More than 2 million people across the US searched for Lakers on 23rd May on the
occasion of their playoff game with the Suns. Lakers Power Forward Anthony Davis made headlines by taking full blame
for their Game 1 loss to the Suns. The question remains could the Lakers or the Suns use the information from their
previous matches more efficiently to be more competitive?

Enter Data Science. Data Science is a set of tools and methods to execute sophisticated analyses of data. The NBA
games data goes back to the 1946-47 session. Spreadsheet analysis is not enough to leverage such extensive data.
Data Science, on the other hand, can handle the task of learning insights from all the NBA games to date (roughly
62,500) smoothly. Using a standard classification model, we are able to get an accuracy of ~70%. The classification
model only used the data from the last game between the teams to decide which team wins. That is very promising compared to the top experts only having a long-term accuracy of around 67%. Through this series of articles, we will be able to use Data Science to predict basketball games better than experts. 

<br/><br/>
###Part 1: The Data
<br/><br/>
The code examples in this article series are hosted on a GitHub repository. Downloading the code from GitHub can save you a lot of time typing the code yourself. But I strongly recommend typing and running the code in the sequence presented in this series. 
<br/><br/>
###NBA Data
<br/><br/>
We will be using the NBA game data available from www.nba.com. NBA uses an API (eg. Application Programming Interface) to update the data in its website in a safe and accurate manner. The API also makes it more efficient to read the data in the NBA website compared to manually noting down the individual game statistics from the website. For example the following url gives access to the data of all the games of the 2019-20 session using the API client for NBA ie. [nba_api](https://pypi.org/project/nba-api/) :
<br/><br/>

    https://stats.nba.com/stats/leaguegamelog?Counter=0&DateFrom=&DateTo=&Direction=ASC&LeagueID=00&PlayerOrTeam=T&Season=2019-20&SeasonType=Regular+Season&Sorter=DATE

<br/><br/>
We use the data from the NBA 2019-20 season to make the following visualization:
<br/><br/>
fig
first_figure
fig
<br/><br/>
<br/><br/>
It is clear from the above chart that the total number of field goals attempted by a team is not correlated with its chances of winning. For example, the Golden State Warriors (the team with the worst win-loss ratio among all the teams in the 2019-20 season) roughly had the same number of field goal attempts as the Milwaukee Bucks (the team with the best win-loss ratio among all the teams in the 2019-20 season). 
<br/><br/>
On the other hand, the Dallas Mavericks (43-31) had the highest number of total field goals attempted ie. 3435. The Dallas Mavericks earned themselves a playoff spot in the 2019-20 season. But the highest number of field goal attempts did not help the Mavericks earn a division title. Therefore, teams with better records simply had better ability to convert field goals attempted to field goals made.  Are there other ways to differentiate the winning teams from the losing teams? 
<br/><br/>
<br/><br/>
fig
second_figure
fig
<br/><br/>
The Golden State Warriors had significantly fewer total rebounds (eg. 1458) compared to the Milwaukee Bucks (eg. 1827). We find that the total number of rebounds roughly increases with increasing win-loss ratio among teams. Thus a total number of rebounds is a better indicator of a team’s success in a particular season compared to the total number of field goals attempted.   

What about the other metrics? We look at 3 primary metrics eg. Rebound Rate, Offensive Rebound Rate Allowed, and Steal Blocks and Turnovers. The 3 metrics are defined as follows:
<br/><br/>
- **Rebound Rate** is the total rebounds of the team as an average percentage of the rebounds it made and allowed over all the season games for a given team. eg. Rebound/(Rebound+Rebound Allowed)\*100
<br/><br/>
- **Offensive Rebound Rate Allowed** is the average percentage of rebounds allowed that were offensive rebounds over all the season games for a given team eg. Offensive Rebounds Allowed/(Rebounds Allowed)
<br/><br/>
- **Steals, Blocks, and Turnovers** measures (*as the name suggests*) the total number of Steals, Blocks, and Turnovers over all the season games for a given team eg. Steals + Blocks + Turnovers
<br/><br/>
fig
third_figure
fig
<br/><br/>
Different metrics favor or disfavor different teams. The Milwaukee Bucks have the highest Rebound Rate of 54%. This indicates that the Milwaukee Bucks did not just exhibit great offense by having the highest number of rebounds. The Milwaukee Bucks also showed strong defense in their games by limiting the number of Rebounds they allowed opponents. However, all the other teams also mentioned a decent Rebound Rate. The lowest Rebound Rate is as much as 49%.
<br/><br/>
The Charlotte Hornets and the Toronto Raptors come to light for their glaring Offensive Rebound Rate Allowed. Both lag behind the other teams with an Offensive Rebound Rate Allowed of 25%. Although the Toronto Raptors finished the season strong with Gasol and Ibaka making up for the dismal Offensive Rebound Rate Allowed.
<br/><br/>
The Toronto Raptors more than made up for a higher  Offensive Rebound Rate Allowed with the most number of Steals, Blocks, and Turnovers. While it may come as a surprise to many, the Chicago Bulls were one of the top defensive teams in the 2019-20 season. They were only slightly behind the Raptors with respect to the total number of Steals, Blocks, and Turnovers.
